README.en.md, before:

# Nestos-Assembler

### Description
`nestos-assembler` is a build environment used to build NestOS systems.

### Summary

`nestos-assembler` is a build environment that contains a series of tools that can be used to build NestOS. `nestos-assembler` implements that the process of building and testing the operating system is encapsulated in a container.

`nestos-assembler` can be simply understood as a container environment that can build nestos. This environment integrates some scripts, RPM packages and tools required to build NestOS.

### Usage

#### Build Container image
```
git clone https://gitee.com/openeuler/nestos-assembler.git
cd nestos-assembler/
docker build -f Dockerfile . -t nestos-assembler:your_tag
```
#### nosa shell script
The role of nosa shell script is to encapsulate the `nestos-assembler` call process and simplify command execution complexity. Due to differences in user usage of container runtime and building container image names, the nosa shell script is currently not provided by `nestos-assembler`. Please follow the following steps to modify and implement it in the environment where `nestos-assembler` will running:
- Write the content as shown in the following example. Please modify the container image name according to the actual situation:
```
#!/bin/bash

sudo docker run --rm  -it --security-opt label=disable --privileged --user=root                        \
           -v ${PWD}:/srv/ --device /dev/kvm --device /dev/fuse --network=host                                 \
           --tmpfs /tmp -v /var/tmp:/var/tmp -v /root/.ssh/:/root/.ssh/   -v /etc/pki/ca-trust/:/etc/pki/ca-trust/                                        \
           ${COREOS_ASSEMBLER_CONFIG_GIT:+-v $COREOS_ASSEMBLER_CONFIG_GIT:/srv/src/config/:ro}   \
           ${COREOS_ASSEMBLER_GIT:+-v $COREOS_ASSEMBLER_GIT/src/:/usr/lib/coreos-assembler/:ro}  \
           ${COREOS_ASSEMBLER_CONTAINER_RUNTIME_ARGS}                                            \
           ${COREOS_ASSEMBLER_CONTAINER:-nestos-assembler:your_tag} "$@"
```
- Save or move the script to the dir /usr/local/bin/
- Granting executable permissions:
```
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/nosa
```

### Common commands
#### Basic build process
|  Command   |   Description  |
| --- | --- |
| nosa init  |  Initialize the build working directory and pull the build configuration   |
| nosa fetch  |  Update the latest build configuration and download the required rpm package for caching   |
| nosa build  |  Building a new commit of the OSTree file system, generate ociarchive file |

#### Build manage
|  Command   |   Description  |
| --- | --- |
| nosa list  |  List historical builds and built releases under the current working directory   |
| nosa clean  |  Delete all historical builds(builds/、tmp/)   |
| nosa prune  |  Delete specific build versions |
| nosa compress | Compress build artifacts |
| nosa decompress | Decompression build artifacts |
| nosa uncompress | Decompression build artifacts  |
| nosa tag | Manage build tags |

#### Build for specified platform
|  Command   |   Description  |
| --- | --- |
| nosa buildextend-qemu| Build qemu platform qcow2 format image, also can be completed by the `build` command |
| nosa buildextend-metal| Build a raw format disk image, also can be completed by the `build` command |
| nosa buildextend-metal4k| Build a native 4k mode raw format disk image, also can be completed by the `build` command |
| nosa buildextend-live| To build an ISO image with a live environment, the metal and metal4k format images must have already been built |
| nosa buildextend-openstack| Building a qcow2 image for the openstack |

#### Others
|  Command   |   Description  |
| --- | --- |
| nosa kola run | Automated functional testing of specified version builds using the Kola testing framework |
| nosa kola testiso |Automated scenario testing of building different platform artifacts for specified versions using the Kola testing framework(e.g. iso, PXE)|
| nosa kola-run | Equivalent to `kola run`, this command can eliminate interference from invalid logs during the testing process, obtain test statistics results, and extract valid logs|
| nosa push-container | Push OCI format OSTree to registry |
| nosa run | Run the NestOS qemu instance of the specified build, usually used for debugging and validation |
| nosa shell | Enter the `nestos-assembler` container image environment bash, usually used for debugging and verification |

### LICENSE

`nestos-assembler` complies with the Apache 2.0 copyright agreement.

### Notice

`nestos-assembler` is a fork of coreos-assembler(https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler), It will be adapted and maintained in the openEuler ecosystem, and independent evolution will be considered in the later stage.Thanks for the coreos-assembler project from Fedora coreos team.

### The main differences with coreos-assembler

Refer to [changelog-compared-with-upstream.md](./docs/changelog-compared-with-upstream.md)。

Commit message:

docs: add tips on reducing git clone pull size

README.en.md, after:

# Nestos-Assembler

### Description
`nestos-assembler` is a build environment used to build NestOS systems.

### Summary

`nestos-assembler` is a build environment that contains a series of tools that can be used to build NestOS. `nestos-assembler` implements that the process of building and testing the operating system is encapsulated in a container.

`nestos-assembler` can be simply understood as a container environment that can build nestos. This environment integrates some scripts, RPM packages and tools required to build NestOS.

### Clone repository notes
Due to the drastic changes in the Nestos-assembler code and the large number of historical commit records, when cloning this repository, it is recommended to use the following command to reduce the size of the code directory and improve the fetch speed:
```
git clone --depth=1 --single-branch https://gitee.com/openeuler/nestos-assembler.git
```
Adding the parameters means to download only the most recent commit of a single branch. 

### Usage

#### Build Container image
```
git clone --depth=1 --single-branch https://gitee.com/openeuler/nestos-assembler.git
cd nestos-assembler/
docker build -f Dockerfile . -t nestos-assembler:your_tag
```
#### nosa shell script
The role of nosa shell script is to encapsulate the `nestos-assembler` call process and simplify command execution complexity. Due to differences in user usage of container runtime and building container image names, the nosa shell script is currently not provided by `nestos-assembler`. Please follow the following steps to modify and implement it in the environment where `nestos-assembler` will running:
- Write the content as shown in the following example. Please modify the container image name according to the actual situation:
```
#!/bin/bash

sudo docker run --rm  -it --security-opt label=disable --privileged --user=root                        \
           -v ${PWD}:/srv/ --device /dev/kvm --device /dev/fuse --network=host                                 \
           --tmpfs /tmp -v /var/tmp:/var/tmp -v /root/.ssh/:/root/.ssh/   -v /etc/pki/ca-trust/:/etc/pki/ca-trust/                                        \
           ${COREOS_ASSEMBLER_CONFIG_GIT:+-v $COREOS_ASSEMBLER_CONFIG_GIT:/srv/src/config/:ro}   \
           ${COREOS_ASSEMBLER_GIT:+-v $COREOS_ASSEMBLER_GIT/src/:/usr/lib/coreos-assembler/:ro}  \
           ${COREOS_ASSEMBLER_CONTAINER_RUNTIME_ARGS}                                            \
           ${COREOS_ASSEMBLER_CONTAINER:-nestos-assembler:your_tag} "$@"
```
- Save or move the script to the dir /usr/local/bin/
- Granting executable permissions:
```
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/nosa
```

### Common commands
#### Basic build process
|  Command   |   Description  |
| --- | --- |
| nosa init  |  Initialize the build working directory and pull the build configuration   |
| nosa fetch  |  Update the latest build configuration and download the required rpm package for caching   |
| nosa build  |  Building a new commit of the OSTree file system, generate ociarchive file |

#### Build manage
|  Command   |   Description  |
| --- | --- |
| nosa list  |  List historical builds and built releases under the current working directory   |
| nosa clean  |  Delete all historical builds(builds/、tmp/)   |
| nosa prune  |  Delete specific build versions |
| nosa compress | Compress build artifacts |
| nosa decompress | Decompression build artifacts |
| nosa uncompress | Decompression build artifacts  |
| nosa tag | Manage build tags |

#### Build for specified platform
|  Command   |   Description  |
| --- | --- |
| nosa buildextend-qemu| Build qemu platform qcow2 format image, also can be completed by the `build` command |
| nosa buildextend-metal| Build a raw format disk image, also can be completed by the `build` command |
| nosa buildextend-metal4k| Build a native 4k mode raw format disk image, also can be completed by the `build` command |
| nosa buildextend-live| To build an ISO image with a live environment, the metal and metal4k format images must have already been built |
| nosa buildextend-openstack| Building a qcow2 image for the openstack |

#### Others
|  Command   |   Description  |
| --- | --- |
| nosa kola run | Automated functional testing of specified version builds using the Kola testing framework |
| nosa kola testiso |Automated scenario testing of building different platform artifacts for specified versions using the Kola testing framework(e.g. iso, PXE)|
| nosa kola-run | Equivalent to `kola run`, this command can eliminate interference from invalid logs during the testing process, obtain test statistics results, and extract valid logs|
| nosa push-container | Push OCI format OSTree to registry |
| nosa run | Run the NestOS qemu instance of the specified build, usually used for debugging and validation |
| nosa shell | Enter the `nestos-assembler` container image environment bash, usually used for debugging and verification |

### LICENSE

`nestos-assembler` complies with the Apache 2.0 copyright agreement.

### Notice

`nestos-assembler` is a fork of coreos-assembler(https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler), It will be adapted and maintained in the openEuler ecosystem, and independent evolution will be considered in the later stage.Thanks for the coreos-assembler project from Fedora coreos team.

### The main differences with coreos-assembler

Refer to [changelog-compared-with-upstream.md](./docs/changelog-compared-with-upstream.md)。
