docs/cosa.md, before:

---
has_children: true
nav_order: 5
---

# CoreOS Assembler Command Line Reference

This is a short reference of `cosa` sub-commands available in a CoreOS
Assembler container. See each commands `--help` output for more details about
supported arguments.

## Main commands

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [build](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-build) | Build OSTree and image base artifacts from previously fetched packages
| [clean](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-clean) | Delete all build artifacts
| [fetch](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-fetch) | Fetch and import the latest packages
| [init](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-init) | Setup the current working directory for CoreOS Assembler and clone the given project URL as Git config
| [kola](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-kola) | Run tests with [kola](kola.md)
| [list](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-list) | List builds available locally
| [run](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-run) | Run a CoreOS instance in QEMU with access to a root shell
| [shell](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-shell) | Get an interactive shell or run a command in a CoreOS Assembler container
| [virt-install](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-virt-install) | "Install" a CoreOS system with libvirt

The following commands only do a partial rebuild to make it faster to develop
on a specific part of the OS. Make sure to use the one corresponding to the
part that you are working on or you will not benefit from them (i.e. they will
not produce an image with your changes):

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [build-fast](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-build-fast) | Creates a new QCOW2 image from an existing build and updates the ostree commit with local overrides. This will only change files located in the final root (i.e. part of an ostree commit).
| [buildinitramfs-fast](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildinitramfs-fast) | Create a new QCOW2 image from an existing build and updates the initramfs with local overrides. This will not re-run dracut to rebuild the initramfs.

## buildextend commands

By default, the `build` command will build an OSTree and a QEMU image as base
artifacts. Those commands extend those artifacts to make them functional on
other platforms or cloud providers:

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [buildextend-live](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildextend-live) | Generate the Live ISO
| [buildextend-{dasd,metal,metal4k,qemu,secex}](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildextend-metal) | Generate artifacts for the given platforms
| [buildextend-{aliyun,aws,azure,digitalocean,exoscale,gcp,vultr}](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-ore-wrapper) | Generate artifacts for the given platforms
| [buildextend-{azurestack,ibmcloud,openstack,vmware}](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-artifact-disk) | Generate artifacts for the given platforms
| [{aliyun,aws}-replicate](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-ore-wrapper) | Replicate images on the platforms (AMIs for AWS)

## Misc commands

Those less commonly used commands are listed here:

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [basearch](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-basearch) | Convenient wrapper for getting the base architecture
| [build-validate](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-build-validate) | Validate the checksum of a given build
| [buildfetch](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildfetch) | Fetches the bare minimum from external servers to create the next build
| [buildupload](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildupload) | Upload a build which later can be partially re-downloaded with cmd-buildfetch
| [compress](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-compress) | Compresses all images in a build
| [dev-overlay](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-dev-overlay) | Add content on top of a commit, handling SELinux labeling etc.
| [dev-synthesize-osupdate](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-dev-synthesize-osupdate) | Synthesize an OS update by modifying ELF files in a "benign" way (adding an ELF note)
| [dev-synthesize-osupdatecontainer](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-dev-synthesize-osupdatecontainer) | Wrapper for dev-synthesize-osupdate that operates on an oscontainer for OpenShift
| [koji-upload](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-koji-upload) | Performs the required steps to make COSA a Koji Content Generator
| [meta](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-meta) | Helper for interacting with a builds meta.json
| [oc-adm-release](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-oc-adm-release) | Publish an oscontainer as the machine-os-content in an OpenShift release series
| [offline-update](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-offline-update) | Given a disk image and a coreos-assembler build, use supermin to update the disk image to the target OSTree commit "offline"
| [prune](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-prune) | This script removes previous builds. DO NOT USE on production pipelines
| [remote-prune](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-remote-prune) | Removes unreferenced builds from s3 bucket
| [runc](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-runc) | Spawn the current build as a container
| [sign](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-sign) | Implements signing with RoboSignatory via fedora-messaging
| [supermin-shell](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-supermin-shell) | Get a supermin shell
| [tag](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-tag) | Operate on the tags in `builds.json`
| [test-coreos-installer](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-test-coreos-installer) | Automate an end-to-end run of coreos-installer with the metal image
| [upload-oscontainer](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-upload-oscontainer) | Upload an oscontainer (historical wrapper for `cosa oscontainer`)

Commit message:

buildextend-legacy-oscontainer: use runvm to build legacy oscontainer
This introduces a new command to create a oci-archive of the
    legacy oscontainer that will be pushed with
    `cosa push-container-manifest` by the pipeline.

[upstream]
1f4cf7f706344f00e7f9125ec1663a8b2018d817
03dd8da933722902b9775c823af68afa5187f774
d9e68ef69f36a58da47bb29f4d9ac0f289afd430
13a6ee49a7850700f393d76ae90b8555e5b850be
fca3c8752bf8755f1350809e5dda5302bf7e3081
4b883d570d60abd3b61527c458ad8e439ada870c
9b7c86d2acfa4956d5d282f2aeaa152a0cd51c23
3d89e1ab9494592c957bfbc7c5143b58a5e699a3
db1c001edca6848561d36a311b4fb8f2cb7faef9
f2cfb180003867deb76f8e2b3f762e545d9d7a39
b202a3e226ffc2e6013f7b361b54e7234a5e266b
88843e3d22fd8051df7797c79ca79504870ab4f3
b91594c7f8aba85da2d6b81122a5ef6d82f94305
d98f3de8bf49b9da95ee00868494e7379c5c5bfc

docs/cosa.md, after:

---
has_children: true
nav_order: 5
---

# CoreOS Assembler Command Line Reference

This is a short reference of `cosa` sub-commands available in a CoreOS
Assembler container. See each commands `--help` output for more details about
supported arguments.

## Main commands

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [build](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-build) | Build OSTree and image base artifacts from previously fetched packages
| [clean](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-clean) | Delete all build artifacts
| [fetch](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-fetch) | Fetch and import the latest packages
| [init](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-init) | Setup the current working directory for CoreOS Assembler and clone the given project URL as Git config
| [kola](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-kola) | Run tests with [kola](kola.md)
| [list](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-list) | List builds available locally
| [run](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-run) | Run a CoreOS instance in QEMU with access to a root shell
| [shell](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-shell) | Get an interactive shell or run a command in a CoreOS Assembler container
| [virt-install](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-virt-install) | "Install" a CoreOS system with libvirt

The following commands only do a partial rebuild to make it faster to develop
on a specific part of the OS. Make sure to use the one corresponding to the
part that you are working on or you will not benefit from them (i.e. they will
not produce an image with your changes):

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [build-fast](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-build-fast) | Creates a new QCOW2 image from an existing build and updates the ostree commit with local overrides. This will only change files located in the final root (i.e. part of an ostree commit).
| [buildinitramfs-fast](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildinitramfs-fast) | Create a new QCOW2 image from an existing build and updates the initramfs with local overrides. This will not re-run dracut to rebuild the initramfs.

## buildextend commands

By default, the `build` command will build an OSTree and a QEMU image as base
artifacts. Those commands extend those artifacts to make them functional on
other platforms or cloud providers:

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [buildextend-live](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildextend-live) | Generate the Live ISO
| [buildextend-{dasd,metal,metal4k,qemu,secex}](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildextend-metal) | Generate artifacts for the given platforms
| [buildextend-{aliyun,aws,azure,digitalocean,exoscale,gcp,vultr}](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-ore-wrapper) | Generate artifacts for the given platforms
| [buildextend-{azurestack,ibmcloud,openstack,vmware}](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-artifact-disk) | Generate artifacts for the given platforms
| [{aliyun,aws}-replicate](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-ore-wrapper) | Replicate images on the platforms (AMIs for AWS)
| [buildextend-legacy-oscontainer](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildextend-legacy-oscontainer) | Create an oscontainer in legacy format (i.e. not OSTree-native)

## Misc commands

Those less commonly used commands are listed here:

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [basearch](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-basearch) | Convenient wrapper for getting the base architecture
| [build-validate](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-build-validate) | Validate the checksum of a given build
| [buildfetch](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildfetch) | Fetches the bare minimum from external servers to create the next build
| [buildupload](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-buildupload) | Upload a build which later can be partially re-downloaded with cmd-buildfetch
| [compress](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-compress) | Compresses all images in a build
| [dev-overlay](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-dev-overlay) | Add content on top of a commit, handling SELinux labeling etc.
| [dev-synthesize-osupdate](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-dev-synthesize-osupdate) | Synthesize an OS update by modifying ELF files in a "benign" way (adding an ELF note)
| [dev-synthesize-osupdatecontainer](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-dev-synthesize-osupdatecontainer) | Wrapper for dev-synthesize-osupdate that operates on an oscontainer for OpenShift
| [koji-upload](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-koji-upload) | Performs the required steps to make COSA a Koji Content Generator
| [meta](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-meta) | Helper for interacting with a builds meta.json
| [oc-adm-release](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-oc-adm-release) | Publish an oscontainer as the machine-os-content in an OpenShift release series
| [offline-update](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-offline-update) | Given a disk image and a coreos-assembler build, use supermin to update the disk image to the target OSTree commit "offline"
| [prune](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-prune) | This script removes previous builds. DO NOT USE on production pipelines
| [remote-prune](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-remote-prune) | Removes unreferenced builds from s3 bucket
| [runc](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-runc) | Spawn the current build as a container
| [sign](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-sign) | Implements signing with RoboSignatory via fedora-messaging
| [supermin-shell](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-supermin-shell) | Get a supermin shell
| [tag](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-tag) | Operate on the tags in `builds.json`
| [test-coreos-installer](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-test-coreos-installer) | Automate an end-to-end run of coreos-installer with the metal image
| [upload-oscontainer](https://github.com/coreos/coreos-assembler/blob/main/src/cmd-upload-oscontainer) | Upload an oscontainer (historical wrapper for `cosa oscontainer`)
