docs/cosa/run.md, before:

---
parent: CoreOS Assembler Command Line Reference
nav_order: 2
---

# cosa run

You can use `cosa run` (actually a thin wrapper around `kola qemuexec`) to
quickly bring up VMs locally using QEMU. In its simplest invocation, `cosa run`
by itself will start a VM using the latest QEMU image in the cosa workdir and
auto-login as `core`. You can point at a different image using `--qemu-image`:

```
$ cosa run --qemu-image rhcos-qemu.qcow2
```

Many additional options are supported. Use `--help` to see them. The following
sections discuss a few in more details.

## Testing Butane or Ignition configs

Using `cosa run` is a very effective way to iterate on your Butane or Ignition
config. Use the `--butane/-B` or `--ignition/-i` switches respectively to pass
the config path.

## Using the serial console

By default, an SSH connection is established. It's sometimes useful to see the
full Ignition run or interrupt the GRUB menu for testing. Use `-c` to use the
serial console instead:

```
$ cosa run -c
...
SeaBIOS (version 1.15.0-1.fc35)

iPXE (http://ipxe.org) 00:04.0 C000 PCI2.10 PnP PMM+3FF8C100+3FECC100 C000

Booting from Hard Disk...
..

<GRUB MENU>
...
```

To exit from the VM, use `Ctrl-A X`.

## Running the ISO

You can run the ISO using:

```
$ cosa run --qemu-iso rhcos.iso
```

## Additional disks

You can attach additional disks to the VM. This is useful for example to test an
Ignition config which partitions things there. The option can be repeated
multiple times.

The additional disks will show up as `/dev/disk/by-id/virtio-disk[N]` with N
being a 1-based index corresponding to the order in which `--add-disk` was
provided.

```
$ cosa run --add-disk 1G --add-disk 2G -B config-partition.bu
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ lsblk -d
NAME MAJ:MIN RM SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
vda  252:0    0   1G  0 disk
vdb  252:16   0   2G  0 disk
vdc  252:32   0  16G  0 disk
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ ls -l /dev/disk/by-id
total 0
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root  9 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-disk1 -> ../../vda
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root  9 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-disk2 -> ../../vdb
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root  9 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-primary-disk -> ../../vdc
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 10 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-primary-disk-part1 -> ../../vdc1
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 10 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-primary-disk-part2 -> ../../vdc2
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 10 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-primary-disk-part3 -> ../../vdc3
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 10 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-primary-disk-part4 -> ../../vdc4
```

Additional disks CLI arguments support optional flags using the `--add-disk
2G:OPT1,OPT2,...` syntax. An example is `mpath`, discussed below.

## Additional kernel arguments

You can append more kernel arguments using `--kargs`:

```
$ cosa run --kargs 'foo bar'
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ grep -o 'foo bar' /proc/cmdline
foo bar
```

## Simulating a CoreOS install

With `--qemu-iso` and `--add-disk`, it's possible to run through the interactive
installation flow:

```
$ cosa run -c --qemu-iso fedora-coreos-34.20211031.3.0-live.x86_64.iso --add-disk 10G
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo coreos-installer install /dev/vda --ignition /run/ignition.json
Installing Fedora CoreOS 34.20211031.3.0 x86_64 (512-byte sectors)
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo reboot # reboot into installed system
...
```

(The `--ignition /run/ignition.json` is a trick for getting auto-login on the
installed system automatically just as the live environment itself was set up.)

Of course, one can also use an Ignition config or [a customized ISO](https://coreos.github.io/coreos-installer/cmd/iso/#coreos-installer-iso-customize)
or the `coreos.inst.*` kargs using `--kargs` to also manually test automated
flows. (Many of these flows are covered by our `kola testiso` scenarios.)

## Multipath

### As primary disk

To test multipath on the primary disk in a QEMU instance, use
`--qemu-multipath`:

```
$ cosa run --qemu-multipath
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ findmnt /sysroot
TARGET   SOURCE              FSTYPE OPTIONS
/sysroot /dev/mapper/mpatha4 xfs    ro,relatime,seclabel,attr2,inode64,logbufs=8,logbsize=32k,noquota
```

### As secondary disk

To test multipath on secondary disks:

```
$ cosa run --add-disk 1G:mpath
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ lsblk /dev/sd*
NAME MAJ:MIN RM SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
sda    8:0    0   1G  0 disk
sdb    8:16   0   1G  0 disk
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo mpathconf --enable
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo systemctl start multipathd
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ lsblk /dev/sd*
NAME     MAJ:MIN RM SIZE RO TYPE  MOUNTPOINT
sda        8:0    0   1G  0 disk
`-mpatha 253:0    0   1G  0 mpath
sdb        8:16   0   1G  0 disk
`-mpatha 253:0    0   1G  0 mpath
```

This could be used for example to test a Butane config which formats and mounts
the multipathed disk at e.g. `/var/lib/containers`, or elsewhere. (This is
equivalent to the `multipath.partition` kola test.)

### As installation target

To test an installation on a multipath device:

```
$ cosa run -c --qemu-iso fedora-coreos-34.20211031.3.0-live.x86_64.iso --add-disk 10G:mpath
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo mpathconf --enable
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo systemctl start multipathd
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo coreos-installer install /dev/mapper/mpatha \
    --ignition /run/ignition.json \
    --append-karg rd.multipath=default \
    --append-karg root=/dev/disk/by-label/dm-mpath-root \
    --append-karg rw
Installing Fedora CoreOS 34.20211031.3.0 x86_64 (512-byte sectors)
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo reboot # reboot into installed system
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ findmnt /sysroot
TARGET   SOURCE              FSTYPE OPTIONS
/sysroot /dev/mapper/mpatha4 xfs    ro,relatime,seclabel,attr2,inode64,logbufs=8
```

(The `--ignition /run/ignition.json` is a trick for getting auto-login on the
installed system automatically just as the live environment itself was set up.)

This is equivalent to our `kola testiso` multipath scenarios.

Commit message:

sync  tons of qemu options optimization from upstream
[upstream]
f2a0924446a90630e455c198a5f465170eb22892
33cc9fd5c8d770915545728d0761ec87b69182e7
551e93e7d2bc2b54ae7bdd883c1c79c975c00b9c
c8675841f60fddf3c43193eaee6215d134f40406
7a1f61e0c5990be0c4c858af4c0292abbbca91f3
66cff73f2533e5db78d17ce706f043579b4e4c2f
53be1b6c717cc145f866005bc488b44089a78448
0c2fe2768d8efcafde07e22b9d0978e7ef487c65
46269612f7c1d6ae6407d187ca5c927a9db698df
854e3c0d04000604917a646641872dcfefedcbb7
ea9f0220ec00142b8ddc9d2a5834ecd01bf21a45
54914bf2c9ba045fe2b7775fc2b198b939eb1ca0
025ba8570b296d96feadd867459ec8ada6808a76
5887a708dd63e0c5c93d429eae5b9c91044f90fa
a1c54a9671e584802ed6d7eee53e68f1c2a4280f
8c91ec9f1b54871a1f70354d0a6c9c655d75e4d9
58397a09feb88d322c7574ada78894af4d75ca5b
7a3e9a537cd5e53dadff281219c1e80d85e10e14
008e04c322e99cdb769cdb36c010810c8625376b
970ebdcb1e76ebc6d3fde8c6f960a34548f4238c
e3cbf040279375e6869adcb7fb253d5839edb714
b3facd95243656dd2292437caee99f81f523e657
ed3b488dd8cdeee9b50a5278a23ec24d1e6d4c62

docs/cosa/run.md, after:

---
parent: CoreOS Assembler Command Line Reference
nav_order: 2
---

# cosa run

You can use `cosa run` (actually a thin wrapper around `kola qemuexec`) to
quickly bring up VMs locally using QEMU. In its simplest invocation, `cosa run`
by itself will start a VM using the latest QEMU image in the cosa workdir and
auto-login as `core`. You can point at a different image using `--qemu-image`:

```
$ cosa run --qemu-image rhcos-qemu.qcow2
```

Many additional options are supported. Use `--help` to see them. The following
sections discuss a few in more details.

## Testing Butane or Ignition configs

Using `cosa run` is a very effective way to iterate on your Butane or Ignition
config. Use the `--butane/-B` or `--ignition/-i` switches respectively to pass
the config path.

## Using the serial console

By default, an SSH connection is established. It's sometimes useful to see the
full Ignition run or interrupt the GRUB menu for testing. Use `-c` to use the
serial console instead:

```
$ cosa run -c
...
SeaBIOS (version 1.15.0-1.fc35)

iPXE (http://ipxe.org) 00:04.0 C000 PCI2.10 PnP PMM+3FF8C100+3FECC100 C000

Booting from Hard Disk...
..

<GRUB MENU>
...
```

To exit from the VM, use `Ctrl-A X`.

## Running the ISO

You can run the ISO using:

```
$ cosa run --qemu-iso rhcos.iso
```

## Additional disks

You can attach additional disks to the VM. This is useful for example to test an
Ignition config which partitions things there. The option can be repeated
multiple times.

The additional disks will show up as `/dev/disk/by-id/virtio-disk[N]` with N
being a 1-based index corresponding to the order in which `--add-disk` was
provided.

```
$ cosa run --add-disk 1G --add-disk 2G -B config-partition.bu
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ lsblk -d
NAME MAJ:MIN RM SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
vda  252:0    0   1G  0 disk
vdb  252:16   0   2G  0 disk
vdc  252:32   0  16G  0 disk
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ ls -l /dev/disk/by-id
total 0
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root  9 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-disk1 -> ../../vda
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root  9 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-disk2 -> ../../vdb
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root  9 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-primary-disk -> ../../vdc
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 10 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-primary-disk-part1 -> ../../vdc1
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 10 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-primary-disk-part2 -> ../../vdc2
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 10 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-primary-disk-part3 -> ../../vdc3
lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 10 Jan 28 19:23 virtio-primary-disk-part4 -> ../../vdc4
```

Additional disks CLI arguments support optional flags using the `--add-disk
2G:OPT1,OPT2,...` syntax. Supported options are:

- `mpath`: enables multipathing for the disk (see below for details).
- `4k`: sets the disk as 4Kn (4096 physical sector size)
- `channel=CHANNEL`: set the channel type (e.g. `virtio`, `nvme`)
- `serial=NAME`: sets the disk serial; this can then be used to customize the
  default `diskN` naming documented above (e.g. `serial=foobar` will make the
  device show up as `/dev/disk/by-id/virtio-foobar`)

## Additional kernel arguments

You can append more kernel arguments using `--kargs`:

```
$ cosa run --kargs 'foo bar'
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ grep -o 'foo bar' /proc/cmdline
foo bar
```

## Simulating a CoreOS install

With `--qemu-iso` and `--add-disk`, it's possible to run through the interactive
installation flow:

```
$ cosa run -c --qemu-iso fedora-coreos-34.20211031.3.0-live.x86_64.iso --add-disk 10G
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo coreos-installer install /dev/vda --ignition /run/ignition.json
Installing Fedora CoreOS 34.20211031.3.0 x86_64 (512-byte sectors)
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo reboot # reboot into installed system
...
```

(The `--ignition /run/ignition.json` is a trick for getting auto-login on the
installed system automatically just as the live environment itself was set up.)

Of course, one can also use an Ignition config or [a customized ISO](https://coreos.github.io/coreos-installer/cmd/iso/#coreos-installer-iso-customize)
or the `coreos.inst.*` kargs using `--kargs` to also manually test automated
flows. (Many of these flows are covered by our `kola testiso` scenarios.)

## Multipath

### As primary disk

To test multipath on the primary disk in a QEMU instance, use
`--qemu-multipath`:

```
$ cosa run --qemu-multipath
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ findmnt /sysroot
TARGET   SOURCE              FSTYPE OPTIONS
/sysroot /dev/mapper/mpatha4 xfs    ro,relatime,seclabel,attr2,inode64,logbufs=8,logbsize=32k,noquota
```

### As secondary disk

To test multipath on secondary disks:

```
$ cosa run --add-disk 1G:mpath
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ lsblk /dev/sd*
NAME MAJ:MIN RM SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
sda    8:0    0   1G  0 disk
sdb    8:16   0   1G  0 disk
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo mpathconf --enable
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo systemctl start multipathd
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ lsblk /dev/sd*
NAME     MAJ:MIN RM SIZE RO TYPE  MOUNTPOINT
sda        8:0    0   1G  0 disk
`-mpatha 253:0    0   1G  0 mpath
sdb        8:16   0   1G  0 disk
`-mpatha 253:0    0   1G  0 mpath
```

This could be used for example to test a Butane config which formats and mounts
the multipathed disk at e.g. `/var/lib/containers`, or elsewhere. (This is
equivalent to the `multipath.partition` kola test.)

### As installation target

To test an installation on a multipath device:

```
$ cosa run -c --qemu-iso fedora-coreos-34.20211031.3.0-live.x86_64.iso --add-disk 10G:mpath
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo mpathconf --enable
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo systemctl start multipathd
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo coreos-installer install /dev/mapper/mpatha \
    --ignition /run/ignition.json \
    --append-karg rd.multipath=default \
    --append-karg root=/dev/disk/by-label/dm-mpath-root \
    --append-karg rw
Installing Fedora CoreOS 34.20211031.3.0 x86_64 (512-byte sectors)
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ sudo reboot # reboot into installed system
...
[core@cosa-devsh ~]$ findmnt /sysroot
TARGET   SOURCE              FSTYPE OPTIONS
/sysroot /dev/mapper/mpatha4 xfs    ro,relatime,seclabel,attr2,inode64,logbufs=8
```

(The `--ignition /run/ignition.json` is a trick for getting auto-login on the
installed system automatically just as the live environment itself was set up.)

This is equivalent to our `kola testiso` multipath scenarios.
